---
layout: post
title: Logs for the Monero Space Meeting Held on 2020-12-27
tags: [dev diaries, crypto]
author: Justin Ehrenhofer (sgp_)
---

# Logs

**\<sgp\_\>** Welcome to the very first Monero Space meeting!  
**\<sgp\_\>** We’re so glad to have you here :)  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero Space is a workgroup that’s focused on building community infrastructure and getting stuff done.  
**\<sgp\_\>** 0. Introduction / Greetings  
**\<SerHack\>** Hi!  
**\<sgp\_\>** ping needmoney90 jwinterm sethsimmons anhdres[m] ArticMine gingeropolous Isthmus vtnerd XMR2020 xmrscott[m]  
**\<tallest-man\>** Hi all  
**\<sgp\_\>** tallest-man brett-s[m]  
**\<Isthmus\>** - a wild isthmus appears  
**\<sgp\_\>** excellent  
 — xmrscott[m] waves  
**\<ArticMine\>** Hi  
**\<sgp\_\>** we have a ton of stuff to cover since this is our first "formal" meeting  
**\<sgp\_\>** though of course #monero-space is always open for discussion  
**\<sgp\_\>** 1. Monero Space updates  
**\<sgp\_\>** a. Chatwoot  
**\<sgp\_\>** I am working with the @monero Twitter lead (who wishes not to be named publicly) to get API access necessary for integration with Chatwoot  
**\<sgp\_\>** Chatwoot will allow for support through DMs, integrations in web sites and apps (eg: what about Cake and Monerujo)?  
**\<sgp\_\>** We have a Chatwoot server. I need to update to the latest monthly release, but this is mostly stalled until we integrate. I can open an issue on the Monerujo github however to keep it moving. Cake seems at least somewhat open to supporting, but they haven’t committed to integrating in the app. I haven’t asked yet either, so need to do that.  
**\<sgp\_\>** This will be in addition to r/MoneroSupport and #monero-support  
**\<sgp\_\>** potential volunteers will be screened with a very basic test about Monero to make sure they know what it is  
**\<sgp\_\>** then it will be a lot of "learning on the job"  
**\<sgp\_\>** Chatwoot will improve support quality and will also provide a way for people to get more involved in the Monero community. It will be an answer for people who say “I’m not a dev and I’m new, how can I help?”  
**\<sgp\_\>** we will hopefully also revitalize the StackExchange and other resources with this tool too  
**\<sgp\_\>** any comment on Chatwoot? Anything we're missing?  
**\<sgp\_\>** we can integrate with Facebook too but I don't think we have an "official" page there  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** \<sgp\_ "Chatwoot will allow for support "\> Afaik Monerujo is willing to be a part of a better support system  
**\<sgp\_\>** amazing  
**\<sgp\_\>** anhdres[m]: how do you handle support right now?  
**\<tallest-man\>** Re: community and relationships, I have reached out to BitGo to establish a relationship between the community and BitGo going forward. BitGo is a large custody provider and my understanding is that exchanges are more likely to list a coin if they can plug into a custody provider that offers the coin.  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Everywhere  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Monerujo subreddit, twitter, and the most volume through email  
**\<sgp\_\>** not sure if you want to do this, but looks like Chatwoot has some options for handling email tickets as well https://github.com/chatwoot/chatwoot/pull/1255  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** We were just discussing a useful way to share email support between us, as you know we're only 3 in the team  
**\<sgp\_\>** tallest-man: thanks, yeah support on custody providers is important  
**\<sgp\_\>** anhdres[m]: how many emails do you get a day on average?  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** I'll talk with the guys about it  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** \<sgp\_ "anhdres: how many emails do you "\> No idea, m2049r handles that part  
**\<sgp\_\>** got it, ty :)  
**\<sgp\_\>** to summarize chatwoot: the server is setup, we just need to integrate  
**\<sgp\_\>** any comments/questions on chatwoot?  
**\<Isthmus\>** +1 @tallest-man that jives with some context I learned recently, that most of the big exchanges/funds/etc don't hold funds in-house and rely on third parties to manage most of the actual funds. Even though pushing for adoption by custody services isn't flashy work, it's a prerequisite for exchange adoption.  
**\<sgp\_\>** I know Balance Custody supports Monero, but most others don't  
**\<tallest-man\>** Isthmus: Im hoping it to be fruitful work. It seems that many don't even know of Monero.. and do far the outreach has been surprisingly easy \*knocks on wood\*  
**\<needmoney90\>** Hi  
**\<sgp\_\>** b. The XMR Trader Show  
 — needmoney90 attempts to rapidly wake up  
**\<sgp\_\>** We are looking for someone to do a short weekly show with a focus on Monero trading (with allowances for other trading and other Monero news). Target episode time 5-10 mins.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Needmoney90 – can you find someone who can do this weekly?  
**\<tallest-man\>** Serious question: Do we have a Monero Space Amanda B Johnson in the room? For doing the show. Someone passionate, and articulate.  
**\<needmoney90\>** Hm. Will be tough in this community, but perhaps  
**\<needmoney90\>** People are allergic to trade stuff here  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** The Mooncast  
**\<rotten\>** name checks out.  
**\<sgp\_\>** yeah, a bit of a disease sometimes but a blessing other times :)  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** The Monero Moon Broadcast  
**\<tallest-man\>** I like Mooncast  
**\<needmoney90\>** I can ask in the subreddit  
**\<needmoney90\>** See if anyone perks up  
**\<sgp\_\>** awesome, ty  
**\<sgp\_\>** good name ideas too  
**\<sgp\_\>** I think it's important that we help build a trading community too  
**\<sgp\_\>** any other comments on this?  
**\<LyzaL\>** I like the general discouragement of focusing on price in the Monero community, is my 2c  
**\<LyzaL\>** but traders gonna trade  
**\<sgp\_\>** yeah this would be for xmrtrader really  
**\<LyzaL\>** cool  
**\<sgp\_\>** I assume it wouldn't be allowed to be shared in r/monero  
**\<LyzaL\>** good point probably not  
**\<needmoney90\>** We could bribe the mods  
**\<LyzaL\>** lol  
**\<sgp\_\>** there are YT channels for trading of everything else, so better to have a reasonable person doing it for Monero relatively often than a scammer  
**\<LyzaL\>** also true  
**\<sgp\_\>** on a similar note  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero Weekly News Show  
**\<sgp\_\>** we are looking for someone to do a weekly run-down of recent Monero news. Maybe a few seconds on price, but price is not the focus. Target episode time 5-10 minutes.  
**\<needmoney90\>** You mean like a live Revuo?  
**\<sgp\_\>** this will also help free up some of the initial, awkward updates intro during the Monero Meet  
**\<sgp\_\>** yeah, kinda like a live Revuo  
**\<sgp\_\>** Here are some example videos form the Russian community: https://www.youtube.com/c/MoneroRussianCommunity/videos  
**\<monerobux\>** [ Monero Russian Community - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<sgp\_\>** s/form/from  
**\<monerobux\>** sgp\_ meant to say: Here are some example videos from the Russian community: https://www.youtube.com/c/MoneroRussianCommunity/videos  
**\<needmoney90\>** Neat  
**\<sgp\_\>** this takes more time than it takes skill, so it's a great way for someone who is looking to help to make a big difference  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** There's someone doing kinda a weekly thing in spanish as well  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** freenode\_btclovera[m]  
**\<needmoney90\>** Isn't rotten doing something there?  
**\<sgp\_\>** anhdres[m]: https://www.youtube.com/c/BTCLovera/videos?  
**\<monerobux\>** [ LoveraTV - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<rotten\>** i'm not, no.  
 — needmoney90 suggests rotten  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Yes  
 — rotten shily takes two steps back  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** https://youtu.be/693E-4AzGzg  
**\<sgp\_\>** anhdres[m]: very cool  
**\<needmoney90\>** Huh, cool  
**\<needmoney90\>** Didn't realize that was a thing  
**\<sgp\_\>** me neither, though I've seen him on Twitter  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Yeah rotten should make a weekly Monero news video in english  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** \*easy to say than do it haha  
**\<needmoney90\>** [piles umwanted work on rotten]  
**\<needmoney90\>** s/um/un/  
**\<monerobux\>** needmoney90 meant to say: [piles unwanted work on rotten]  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Hahaha  
**\<sgp\_\>** lol for real  
**\<sgp\_\>** something to keep in mind. if no one here wants to take the torch and run with it, does someone want to make a Reddit post in r/monero asking for volunteers?  
**\<needmoney90\>** I'll start with the mooncast personally  
**\<sgp\_\>** wow awesome  
**\<needmoney90\>** Like, find a person  
**\<needmoney90\>** Not do myself  
**\<needmoney90\>** Probably  
**\<sgp\_\>** ah, less awesome lol  
**\<needmoney90\>** Might end up happening anyways  
**\<sgp\_\>** still ty  
**\<rotten\>** you got justin going for a second.  
**\<sgp\_\>** lol  
 — needmoney90 convinces rattie to do it   
**\<sgp\_\>** that's just what we need, permabear news  
**\<needmoney90\>** I would die laughing tbh, that would be great  
**\<needmoney90\>** Rattie is a fixture in the sub at this point  
**\<sgp\_\>** maybe not the best choice for the first episode, but for a special edition? amazing content right there  
**\<needmoney90\>** Welcome, binaryfate  
**\<rotten\>** Mooncast beardoom.  
**\<binaryFate\>** hola  
**\<tallest-man\>** AP / Katie Charms?  
**\<tallest-man\>** For the Mooncast  
**\<needmoney90\>** Oh gosh  
**\<rotten\>** pegasus might as well just say 1 XMR = 3 Trillion tomorrow.  
**\<needmoney90\>** That would be quite something  
**\<needmoney90\>** I'll text her  
**\<sgp\_\>** hmm, I wonder if he will do that (I believe they go by "he" now)  
**\<needmoney90\>** After the meeting  
**\<needmoney90\>** She doesn't care  
**\<needmoney90\>** Any pronoun works  
**\<tallest-man\>** Excellent thx.  
**\<sgp\_\>** okay, so good new content to keep in mind above  
**\<sgp\_\>** would be great to have weekly running content imo  
**\<tallest-man\>** The stories and moon narratives of AP were legendary  
**\<sgp\_\>** staying on the video topic  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero introduction videos  
**\<sgp\_\>** We previously discussed putting together two short videos about Monero to help draw attention to our new Monero Space YouTube channel  
**\<sgp\_\>** I'm willing to record these if others help with the script  
**\<sgp\_\>** “10 things to know about Monero” very intro style https://nextcloud.monero.space/index.php/s/2q7GzqfirW42Ekj  
**\<sgp\_\>** “10 things you don’t know about Monero” a little more advanced but still not crazy https://nextcloud.monero.space/index.php/s/qyPSrAYFYFdGdMb  
**\<sgp\_\>** If you would like edit access, please let me know so I can set you up with a Nextcloud account. I would love your help writing these and making some of the transition animations where appropriate.  
**\<needmoney90\>** Might as well  
**\<needmoney90\>** Ping me in a few hours so awake me can be mad at sleepy me for signing up  
**\<sgp\_\>** this is one of the things I want to do since it will get a lot of views, but also I just haven't had the time to do this from scratch  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** I think I already mentioned it once, but as long as I can make a CCS and cover the cost, we could produce animated top-class Monero videos with the studio people  
**\<ArticMine\>** I can work on 10  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Or collaborate  
**\<needmoney90\>** Q: are we really willing to resort to clickbait?  
**\<needmoney90\>** A: duh, clickbait gets views  
**\<sgp\_\>** anhdres[m]: estimate of cost?  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Really depends of what do we need to do, script, voiceover, etc.  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Animation price varies a lot  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Usual 90 secs cut out animation explainers are around 4k usd  
**\<tallest-man\>** I wonder if its cheaper to re-use parts of existing videos.. or if that just introduces more complexity for the new animator (to match style, etc.)  
**\<sgp\_\>** that's another project haha, redoing the savandra videos to update for getmonero  
**\<sgp\_\>** people would definitely be willing to pay for those  
**\<sgp\_\>** those are highest priority for professional animation  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Besides that, I could also do them by myself, it could be cheaper, but take me longer  
**\<sgp\_\>** for these 2 in particular (the "clickbait" ones), I think a video of me talking is probably fine with basic transitions only, but the other two need to be better and a CCS is definitely appropriate imo  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** https://vimeo.com/sloopstudio is the studio work  
**\<anon\_j4892f\>** Why not have a profession develop an initial animated actor, then animate the actor using software. This approach would be very reusable. https://www.live2d.com/  
**\<sgp\_\>** do we need animated actors?  
**\<needmoney90\>** Good news, Pegasus prolly on board  
**\<sethsimmons\>** \<sgp\_ "something to keep in mind. if no"\> I’d be interested in this but have zero experience on something similar.  
**\<sethsimmons\>** And sorry for being AFK so far, dumb me forgot the time changed and 1700UTC is now 12PM my time 🙄  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Besides the studio thing, I can help you sgp\_ with the videos no probs  
**\<needmoney90\>** Welcome Seth  
**\<sgp\_\>** awesome, ty everyone. Looks like we have a lot of fun developments on the video front and hopefully we have some weekly content too :)  
**\<sgp\_\>** I'm going to move on just for time's sake, since we'll go over anyway  
**\<sgp\_\>** on misc:  
**\<sgp\_\>** Update calendar  
**\<sgp\_\>** I will look into updating the Google or Nextcloud calendar for meeting times now that we plan to have them more often.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Bylaws and other docs  
**\<sgp\_\>** I will be writing new bylaws and other docs for 2021, that way those things will finally be formalized. If someone has experience in this area, let me know. Else I’ll put something basic together and then review with the core team for execution  
**\<sgp\_\>** any questions/comments on these items?  
**\<needmoney90\>** A page on our site talking about our funding structure  
**\<needmoney90\>** To appease core et al  
**\<sgp\_\>** ah yes, I'm fine adding a link to our WY page and other docs if needed  
**<xmrscott[m]\>** \<sgp\_ "do we need animated actors?"\> Could always use rehrar's character design probably to create a live2d model  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Please consider a big red sign that says THIS IS A COMPANY FOR PROFITTTT  
**\<sgp\_\>** lol  
**\<sethsimmons\>** 😂  
**\<sgp\_\>** money money money  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** (That they created for Matrix stickers or whatever)  
**\<tallest-man\>** sgp\_: Good to be as broad as possible IMO, lest Space wants to do something that is later found to be out of scope and Stakeholders don't like it..  
**\<sgp\_\>** a conversation bout how to make money is for a later time  
**\<tallest-man\>** Purpose: "To operate in the Cryptocurrency space"  
**\<sgp\_\>** but obviously we want to be transparent (which is how we are having these discussions at all)  
**\<needmoney90\>** I'm transparent  
**\<needmoney90\>** I need money  
**\<sgp\_\>** can't say there's been false advertising there, I must say lol  
**\<sethsimmons\>** If I wanted to do the weekly news update but thought some funding was necessary, is that a bad idea since we’re a separate for-profit entity?  
**\<sgp\_\>** weekly news update on your sethsimmons blog?  
**\<sethsimmons\>** Like should I not even think about CCS because of it being for MS?  
**\<needmoney90\>** I think a parallel funding structure is probably warranted  
**\<sethsimmons\>** \<sgp\_ "weekly news update on your seths"\> Was thinking the video one possibly.  
**\<sgp\_\>** ah I see, and a CCS for that?  
**\<needmoney90\>** We do have a pass through company  
**\<sethsimmons\>** But could also do a weekly blog one, that’s more plausible and a better fit in theory.  
**\<needmoney90\>** Americanpegasus o/  
**\<sethsimmons\>** I want to do the weekly video update but it’s probably out of scope for me.  
**\<rotten\>** well well, look who's here.  
**\<americanpegasus\>** \o  
**\<sethsimmons\>** americanpegasus: Welcome :)  
**\<americanpegasus\>** sup.  
**\<sgp\_\>** if you want to do it but also want some money for the weekly news (which is reasonable given the time sink), then would be best for us to discuss the potential funding options I think (CCS or check)  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** COuld always do LiberaPay and/or OpenCollective I guess if one wanted sustained funding  
**\<sgp\_\>** obviously I don't want to hold things back  
**\<americanpegasus\>** I heard the community might need a regular mooncast  
**\<tallest-man\>** Hellooo  
**\<americanpegasus\>** I currently have all the time in the world and spend my days obsessing about crypto, so am open to the idea  
**\<sgp\_\>** hi americanpegasus!  
**\<sgp\_\>** perfect, let's put you to work haha  
**\<americanpegasus\>** hi all.  What a glorious 2021 we find ourselves oozing into.  
**\<sethsimmons\>** \<sgp\_ "if you want to do it but also wa"\> Yeah I would want to get equipment if doing video, and would need to spend time editing, preparing, and gathering news each week so it would be quite a bit of a time sink.  
**\<tallest-man\>** I'll buy your scotch...  
**\<americanpegasus\>** I'm able to edit video very quickly on iOS through LumaFusion (best $20 I ever spent)  
**\<rotten\>** i think seth would be a great person to take on the weekly news videos.  
**\<americanpegasus\>** But have everything I need to do audio on my pc  
**\<sgp\_\>** sethsimmons: that's a bigger scope than I was originally thinking (I was thinking just a screen capture originally), but paying for better stuff is worth it if you'll put in the effort  
**\<sgp\_\>** are you thinking like news anchor style  
**\<needmoney90\>** What kind of costs are we talking? Greenscreen, condenser mic?  
**\<needmoney90\>** Better equipment for rendering?  
**\<sgp\_\>** AMD EPYC, totally not for Monero mining  
**\<sgp\_\>** :p  
**\<milkycyborg[m]\>** I think I got in here on time  
**\<sgp\_\>** we can continue discussion after the meeting on what to specifically do. I originally prompted this because I saw the Russian community ones and wished we had something in English too  
\<needmoney90 "What kind of costs are we talkin"\> I'm guessing the biggest cost are sethsimmons[m] hours  
**\<americanpegasus\>** I have to step away soon, but just letting everyone know I have everything needed to do a podcast, am happy to bring an ounce of caution to otherwise infinite enthusiasm, and also think it would be a good platform to give people who are much more knowledgeable than me proper space to talk.  
**\<americanpegasus\>** I'm happy to do so for free / donation basis.  Will put together a demo later today.  
**\<Inge-\>** an ounce of caution to 5-digit hopium :P  
**\<needmoney90\>** Free?  
**\<needmoney90\>** You're hired  
**\<sgp\_\>** ty americanpegasus, it would be great to have your help with a weekly Monero-focused trading show, 5-10 mins  
**\<americanpegasus\>** I find it's usually better to let one's work speak for itself; if you're doing something valuable, it will eventually become worth your while - one way or another.  
**\<sgp\_\>** needmoney90: can you still make a post in r/xmrtrader asking for feedback? Someone was interested in something similar in -community a week or so back  
**\<tallest-man\>** I am so excited for this.  
**\<needmoney90\>** On the mooncast?  
**\<needmoney90\>** Or something else  
**\<sgp\_\>** for the mooncast needmoney90  
**\<needmoney90\>** I can look into it. Though maybe Katie is the better person to post it if she's gonna do the cast anyways  
**\<milkycyborg[m]\>** do we have any official member of Monero here? for example ErCCicione?  
**\<needmoney90\>** What does official even mean  
**\<americanpegasus\>** I am the president of Monero and I am here.  
**\<sgp\_\>** I know, mostly just asking for feedback  
**\<americanpegasus\>** You may speak.  
**\<sgp\_\>** last thing under this long section lol:  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero Space Meetings  
**\<sethsimmons\>** I’d mostly need a mic and a better camera if doing video, but the biggest cost is man hours for sure.  
**\<sgp\_\>** Plan: every other Saturday? Sunday?  
**\<sethsimmons\>** Saturday is generally better for me but both should work  
**\<sgp\_\>** Who can be the backup meeting organizers? tbh I have enjoyed the time off and not having to plan all the community meetings, so ideally this can be handed off somehow. I’m happy to do for now.  
**\<needmoney90\>** I mean. If we push them back two hours I'll actually be awake when they start.  
**\<rehrar\>** Lul  
**\<rotten\>** sethsimmons: count on me if you wish to have a co-host; sporadic or otherwise. not doing video for sure, but open for audio, and have a decent microphone.  
**\<needmoney90\>** My biggest concern is sleeping through the start  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Could always do a Doodle-like pool  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** \*poll  
**\<sethsimmons\>** I could host as well as a backup shop  
**\<sethsimmons\>** sgp\_\*  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** (For best time Sat/Sun)  
**\<sethsimmons\>** \<rotten "sethsimmons: count on me if you "\> Sweet, thanks!  
**\<sgp\_\>** okay, look for a Doodle after the meeting then  
**\<rehrar\>** xmrscott[m]: yes animate Isabella!  
**\<sgp\_\>** finally moving on to 2 haha  
**\<sgp\_\>** 2. Other Monero community project updates  
**\<sgp\_\>** The Monero Policy workgroup is having a meeting today at 19 UTC in #monero-policy (will probably happen over Jitsi)  
**\<sgp\_\>** They recently submitted a response to the EU on a regulatory framework for crypto-assets (will probably not market however until after the deadline) https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/better-regulation/have-your-say/initiatives/12089-Financial-services-EU-regulatory-framework-for-crypto-assets/F1379841  
**\<needmoney90\>** Bye milkycyborg  
**\<sgp\_\>** we were not official enough for them  
**\<needmoney90\>** Wish id gotten an answer to what that meant, because erciccione gets paid by CCS for his contributions. Is that official, or a contractor? 👀  
**\<sgp\_\>** if you are interested in policy and compliance, please do join #monero-policy  
**\<sgp\_\>** Atomic Swaps (Farcaster)  
**\<sgp\_\>** There was a December update: https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/kjgi5g/farcaster\_atomicswap\_community\_update\_december/  
**\<monerobux\>** [REDDIT] [Farcaster] Atomic-swap community update December (self.Monero) | 135 points (98.0%) | 27 comments | Posted by h4sh3d | Created at 2020-12-24 - 14:42:32  
**\<sgp\_\>** We have some time here (maybe a year), but it will be good to have resources ready when it launches and to stay involved.  
**\<needmoney90\>** Other people work for free, which in Monero terms is probably more official :p  
**\<sgp\_\>** If there is anything supportive we should be doing RIGHT NOW, please speak :)  
**\<sgp\_\>** otherwise I'll put this in the "later" bucket  
**\<needmoney90\>** Welcome back  
**\<sgp\_\>** Monero FM  
**\<needmoney90\>** Holidays  
**\<sgp\_\>** needmoney90 rehar: what's up here?  
**\<rehrar\>** sgp\_: I plead vacation.  
**\<needmoney90\>** I've being slow due to other things.  
**\<sgp\_\>** rehrar: I'm surprised (but pleased) to see you here :D  
**\<needmoney90\>** Is rehrar official  
**\<rehrar\>** Dude, I love you guys, and you're my good friends, but it's been awesome unplugging.  
\<3  
**\<sgp\_\>** I imagine, it's been a rough few weeks/months  
**\<needmoney90\>** We need to play hand simulator dude  
**\<rehrar\>** Anyways, waiting on Mr. nm90  
**\<rehrar\>** Bug him on radio stuff.  
 — needmoney90 is the worst   
**\<rehrar\>** But don't worry, we haven't taken the money and ran.  
**\<needmoney90\>** Yeah, just let it double for more ez licenses  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** insert Harry Potter puppet pals Ron bother soundbyte  
**\<needmoney90\>** S t r a t e g y  
**\<sgp\_\>** xmrscott[m]: veto  
**\<sgp\_\>** I don't think I get a veto here but veto anyway  
**\<needmoney90\>** I found the source of the mysterious ticking noise!  
**\<needmoney90\>** Okay next on the list sgp  
**\<sgp\_\>** okay  
**\<sgp\_\>** 3. What’s happening in the next week  
**\<sgp\_\>** a. Finances discussion  
**\<sgp\_\>** We have about $700 to spend this week before EOY  
**\<sgp\_\>** Prepay linode, anything else?  
**\<needmoney90\>** I already suggested servers.  
**\<sgp\_\>** yeah, it's a good idea  
**\<needmoney90\>** We could give holiday bonuses from our for profit™ war chest  
 — needmoney90 jests  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** \*FYI I backpaid for Pleroma for 2 months, so that should add another $112(?) assuming it didn't arrive this week or already counts towards Pleroma budget  
**\<sgp\_\>** okay, I haven't checked so we might have that too  
**\<sgp\_\>** I'll double check Pleroma this week  
**\<needmoney90\>** How's the forum doing?  
**\<needmoney90\>** Still being repaired?  
**\<sgp\_\>** yeah, will discuss in a sec  
**\<sgp\_\>** no other recommendations on how to spend money this week?  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Matrix server  
**\<anon\_j4892f\>** What's the torrent infrastructure item? Is that referring to a tracker?  
**\<needmoney90\>** Do we have 10y extensions on our domains?  
**\<needmoney90\>** Those are also money eaters with longevity  
**\<tallest-man\>** You could buy equipment on Amazon (mics, what ever you think may be needed in the future). If it looks like it won't be needed after year end just return it and there would be an Amazon credit for use at a later time.  
**\<sgp\_\>** we have 10y on monero.space I believe  
**\<sgp\_\>** anon\_j4892f: the idea was putting hand-selected Monero videos there  
**\<sgp\_\>** xmrscott[m]: this? https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Basically, yes  
**\<sgp\_\>** hmm, is there demand for this?  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** (For reference for hosting services: https://matrix.org/hosting/)  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** (Basically the people behind Matrix or a group in Switzerland)  
**\<sgp\_\>** Good idea, though I think this would be rushed for this week  
**\<sgp\_\>** plus I'd be curious who would use it  
**\<needmoney90\>** I would use it. Normal matrix servers have issues due to load.  
**\<sgp\_\>** would we need to set up other Matrix/Freenode relays?  
**\<needmoney90\>** Might make it more bearable  
**\<needmoney90\>** Yes prolly  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Yes, technically the existing Monero rooms in Matrix are connected to the default home server, not whatever one we create  
**\<sgp\_\>** okay  
**\<sgp\_\>** are we okay to move on for now?  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Sure  
**\<sgp\_\>** b. Forum  
**\<needmoney90\>** Malware sadness  
**\<sgp\_\>** as most of you have probably noticed, the Flarum form is down  
**\<sgp\_\>** The server was compromised, but as far as we can tell, no personal data was visible to the attacker. Serhack can answer specific questions if he is here  
**\<sgp\_\>** so to our best knowledge, things like emails were not leaked  
**\<SerHack\>** Yes, I'm here if anyone has any questions.  
**\<sgp\_\>** xmrscott[m] and SerHack have been working to safely migrate the user data to a new server  
**\<sgp\_\>** as well as the forum history, extensions, etc  
**\<sethsimmons\>** Ouch  
**\<sgp\_\>** we will post an update there when it's back up informing people  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Yes, unforunately had a crisis strike right around the same time at work, which closed out shortly before Christmas. Will try to finish it today  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** s/it/flarum coming back online  
**\<monerobux\>** xmrscott[m] meant to say: Yes, unforunately had a crisis strike right around the same time at work, which closed out shortly before Christmas. Will try to finish flarum coming back online today  
**\<sgp\_\>** SerHack: can you give an overview of your findings?  
**\<SerHack\>** Yes, I'm on mobile so please do apologize me for any mistakes related to language.  
**\<SerHack\>** Due to a security misconfiguration, it seems unknown attacker had the possibility to inject scripts that were mining Monero.  
**\<needmoney90\>** We got drive by Monero miner virus'd?  
**\<needmoney90\>** That's....coincidental  
**\<needmoney90\>** What misconfiguration, for future use?  
**\<SerHack\>** After one hour of compromission, our web hosting warned us of some weird statistics on our node (high CPU). I killed the scripts, cleaned the machine and stopped the forum server.  
**\<sgp\_\>** yeah, really unfortunate  
**\<needmoney90\>** Do we know what the entry vector was?  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Someone put a script to mine Monero on the server of the Monero forum?  
**\<SerHack\>** The attack and their modus operandi seems indicate that the attacker got into our machine via SSH bruteforcing, logging in as "www" user (a default user with no permissions except for touching and executing scripts into /tmp/ directory). Database was not touched since we believe they could not have access to db (restricted to root user).  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** \< https://matrix.org/\_matrix/media/r0/download/matrix.org/VJmbNFryhDEkHBGxPkjXMljy/images.jpg \>  
**\<needmoney90\>** I think getting a Monero miner virus is kind of hilarious  
**\<sgp\_\>** not to joke too much about a serious matter, but it seems the forum supported the Monero network more than we even expected  
**\<needmoney90\>** 👀  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Haha  
**\<sgp\_\>** getting the forum back online has been delayed because of the holidays, but I want to seriously thank SerHack and xmrscott[m] for their work responding to the incident and helping out so much  
**\<SerHack\>** No worries! Anything for Monero!  
**\<sgp\_\>** like I said, we will share this on the forum too once it gets up  
**\<sgp\_\>** any questions/comments on the forum?  
**\<needmoney90\>** I'll be happy when it's back  
**\<SerHack\>** :)  
**\<sgp\_\>** c. Discord  
**\<sgp\_\>** We have an opportunity to work on improving the Monero Discord, which I think would be a good use of time for getting more contributors on board.  
**\<needmoney90\>** I've been slowly fixing stuff there  
**\<sgp\_\>** Invite link (expires 1 day): https://discord.gg/anjFHDBV  
**\<sgp\_\>** There are 685 people in the Discord right now.  
**\<sgp\_\>** My impression is that the Discord should be heavily streamlined and focused around the relays to Freenode IRC. Bring the communities together :)  
**\<needmoney90\>** Once I realized the previous person deleted their account, I've been trying to triage  
**\<sgp\_\>** the bridges are down atm right?  
**\<needmoney90\>** Yes.  
**\<sgp\_\>** are you the only admin there?  
**\<sgp\_\>** anyway, we plan to clean this up  
**\<sgp\_\>** set high account verification requirements to reduce spam  
**\<needmoney90\>** I think rehrar may have privs, but yes  
**\<sgp\_\>** people who care about disposable accounts will use something other than Discord anyway  
**\<needmoney90\>** Also all accounts need manual verification atm  
**\<needmoney90\>** There's an unlock channel that people post in, bot is down right now  
**\<needmoney90\>** So I'm manually giving everyone who comments there the member role  
**\<sgp\_\>** got it  
**\<sgp\_\>** it would be good to have this Discord for people who are used to interacting with other crypto communities in Discord  
**\<sgp\_\>** gotta meet people where they are :P  
**\<needmoney90\>** But they're operated by a corporation!!!!!  
**\<sgp\_\>** okay, so that wraps up the main part of the meeting  
**\<sgp\_\>** 4. Ideas Time  
**\<sgp\_\>** What else did I miss? What else should we be doing?  
**\<sgp\_\>** I know this has been a long one, but hopefully it's been a useful one  
**\<needmoney90\>** Weekly meetings would be nice for a month or two  
**\<needmoney90\>** While we get up and running  
**\<sgp\_\>** we can definitely do that for those who can attend  
**\<needmoney90\>** Without the usual community meetings being regular at the moment, we have a nice opportunity to advertise our space  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Preoccupied w/ Flarum ATM, but slowly getting into VRChat world design. If there's any interest in having a built VRChat world, let me know  
**\<needmoney90\>** Are the worlds in a standard format?  
**\<needmoney90\>** Like, could I use sketchup or something  
**\<needmoney90\>** Or does it have custom stuff  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** So the way I've seen it done in tutorials thus far is to use Unity's tools  
**\<needmoney90\>** Ah, unity. Okay, that's enough of a thread for me to pull on in my own time  
**\<needmoney90\>** Thanks  
**\<needmoney90\>** Want to schedule next meeting for a week from now?  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** Monero's VR chat in the future would be like cyberpunk 2077's Night City  
**\<needmoney90\>** A buggy mess where people disappear if you stop looking at them?  
**\<rotten\>** lol.  
 — needmoney90 enjoyed cyberbug  
**\<anhdres[m]\>** \<needmoney90 "A buggy mess where people disapp"\> of course, in Monero's case it's a feature. not a bug  
**\<xmrscott[m]\>** Sure, a week from now is fine  
**\<needmoney90\>** Cyberbug2077 wasn't bad :p  
**\<needmoney90\>** 5 minutes before hard deadline (because meeting in #monero-policy)  
**\<needmoney90\>** Anything else people want to add?  
**\<sgp\_\>** sure, meeting in 1 week  
**\<needmoney90\>** Other than next meeting Janurary 3rd  
**\<needmoney90\>** Alright, I think that about does it  
**\<needmoney90\>** See you guys in a week (or sooner if you hang out)  
**\<sgp\_\>** coolio  
**\<sgp\_\>** thanks everyone for joining the first meeting!  
**\<needmoney90\>** Janurary 3rd 2021  
**\<sgp\_\>** see you next week  
**\<sgp\_\>** 17 UTC? or later?  
**\<needmoney90\>** 18, pls  
**\<sgp\_\>** okay fine 18 UTC  
**\<sgp\_\>** will post doodle soon-ish  
**\<needmoney90\>** Cool, catch you guys in Monero-policy  
**\<rotten\>** \o/  
 — needmoney90 swaps rooms
